serverless-php-resources.md, before:

# The Serverless LAMP stack  - Community Resources
> A community curated list of PHP / Serverless resources (videos, blogs, code examples frameworks, events).

![The Serverless LAMP stack](repository-resources/serverless-lamp-stack.png "The Serverless LAMP stack")

PHP is 25 years old and [still powers most of the web](https://w3techs.com/technologies/details/pl-php).

Lambda provides an easy way for PHP developers to take advantage of the benefits of serverless compute.

This community curated list of serverless/PHP resources helps likeminded PHP developers benefit from serverless technologies. It will also help to prove the demand for a natively supported PHP runtime for Lambda.

> PHP, Serverless, LAMP, Amazon API Gateway, AWS Lambda, MySql, Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS Proxy, Lambda Layers, Lambda Custom Runtime API

## Articles

- ["Authenticating AWS Cognito with Laravel"](https://blog.deleu.dev/authenticating-aws-cognito-with-laravel/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["AWS Lambda With PHP Using Bref And Serverless Framework"](https://www.nexmo.com/blog/2020/03/16/aws-lambda-with-php-using-bref-and-serverless-framework-dr) - *Adam Culp*
- ["Bleeding Edge PHP on ZEIT Now"](https://dev.to/nx1/bleeding-edge-php-on-zeit-now-565g) - *Milan Felix Šulc*
- ["Compiling wkhtmltopdf for use inside an AWS Lambda function with Bref is easier than you'd think"](https://tech.mybuilder.com/compiling-wkhtmltopdf-aws-lambda-with-bref-easier-than-you-think/) - *Neal Brooks*
- ["Deploying Laravel Artisan on AWS Lambda"](https://blog.deleu.dev/deploying-laravel-artisan-on-aws-lambda/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["Deploy Static Frontend + PHP Files Using ZEIT Now"](https://dev.to/nx1/deploy-static-frontend-php-files-using-zeit-now-mg) - *Milan Felix Šulc*
- ["Going serverless with PHP"](https://medium.com/php-fad/going-serverless-with-php-f5a67cb3d67b) - *Kpicaza*
- ["Introducing the new Serverless LAMP stack"](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/introducing-the-new-serverless-lamp-stack/) - *Benjamin Smith*
- ["PHPUnit with Bref"](https://blog.deleu.dev/phpunit-with-bref/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["Responding to SMS in PHP using AWS Lambda and Bref"](https://www.twilio.com/blog/responding-to-sms-in-php-using-aws-lambda-and-bref-php) - *Gary Hockin*
- ["Serverless for PHP Developers"](https://blog.servmask.com/serverless-for-php-developers/) - *Gene Surov*
- ["Serverless PHP using AWS Lambda"](https://medium.com/startupward/serverless-php-using-aws-lambda-e36e214d43f7) - *Jacques Fu*
- ["Symfony Messenger on AWS Lambda"](https://developer.happyr.com/symfony-messenger-on-aws-lambda) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["Une introduction au cloud et aux lambdas en PHP"](https://jolicode.com/blog/une-introduction-au-cloud-et-aux-lambdas-en-php) - *Loïck Piera*
- ["Using AWS Lambda as a private Laravel API"](https://blog.deleu.dev/using-aws-lambda-as-a-private-laravel-api/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["What is AWS Lambda, and how Laravel Vapor uses it"](https://dev.to/themsaid/what-is-aws-lambda-and-how-laravel-vapor-uses-it-1j98) - *Mohamed Said*



## Case studies
- ["From LAMP to serverless: case study of externals.io"](https://mnapoli.fr/serverless-case-study-externals/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["How Serverless Saved Us For $2"](https://devops-life.com/blog/2020/03/06/how-serverless-saved-us-for-$2-with-bref-sh/) - *Tristan Bessoussa*
- ["Retour d’expérience : Serverless et PHP"](https://www.enoptea.fr/serverless-et-php/) - *Gaultier Boniface*
- ["Serverless case study: PrettyCI and Laravel Queues"](https://mnapoli.fr/serverless-case-study-prettyci/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Serverless case study: returntrue.win"](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Using NewRelic with Bref on AWS Lambda"](https://developer.happyr.com/newrelic-on-bref-aws-lambda) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["We rebuilt Fathom Analytics from the ground up and moved to Laravel Vapor"](https://usefathom.com/blog/moved-to-vapor) - *Jack Ellis*


## Talks / Videos
- ["A journey toward serverless on a ship called PHP"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VfoNUUJggIA&feature=emb_title) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Creating new AWS Lambda PHP Mezzio application with Bref - Beachcasts LIVE!"](https://github.com/stechstudio/laravel-bref-bridge) - *Adam Culp*
- ["Getting started with PHP on AWS Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5cLZ5jT2Gi0) - *Thomas Bley*
- ["PHP Layer for AWS Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vb-o1DvvHxk) - *Gaultier Boniface*
- ["Serverless PHP applications with Bref - Matthiew Napoli - PHP UK 2020"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2V4QTM2aes&feature=emb_title) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Serverless PHP? EC2 vs Elasticbeanstalk vs Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRY0Iay7Los&t=183s) - *Kai Hendry*
- ["Symfony aws"](https://www.slideshare.net/AlessandroMinoccheri/symfony-aws)- *Alessandro Minoccheri*




## Tools
- ["All you need to log with Bref on AWS Lambda"](https://github.com/brefphp/logger) - *brefphp community*
 - ["Bref PHP extensions separately available as Lambda layers"](https://github.com/brefphp/extra-php-extensions) - *brefphp community*
 - ["Bref, the Laravel way"](https://github.com/stechstudio/laravel-bref-bridge) - *Signature Tech Studio*
- ["Bridge to use Symfony Messenger on AWS Lambda with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/symfony-messenger) - *brefphp community*
- ["Driver for AWS Aurora serverless rds data api / doctrine database abstraction layer"](https://github.com/Nemo64/dbal-rds-data) - *Marco Pfeiffer*
- ["Examples of PHP applications built with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/examples) - *brefphp community*
- ["Package to use Laravel on AWS Lambda with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/laravel-bridge) - *brefphp community*
- ["Small library to write good Lambda hooks"](https://github.com/Happyr/bref-hook-handler) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["Vercel PHP runtime"](https://github.com/juicyfx/now-php) - *Milan Felix Šulc*


## Events
 - June 25/25 2020, Dutch PHP Conference Online [Serverless PHP applications with Bref](https://schedule.phpconference.nl/speaker/8) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- September 24/25 2020, Serverless Days Zurich, [The new LAMP Stack for 2020,  ](https://zurich.serverlessdays.io/speakers/benjamin-smith.html) - *Benjamin Smith*

## Contribute

Contributions are always welcome!
Please read the contribution guidelines first.

## Contribution Guidelines

Please ensure your pull request adheres to the following guidelines:

- Alphabetize your entry.
- Search previous suggestions before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.
- Suggested resources should be include both elements of Serverless technologies and L.A.M.P
- Make an individual pull request for each suggestion.
- New categories, or improvements to the existing categorization are welcome.
- Keep descriptions short and simple, but descriptive.
- Start the description with a capital and end with a full stop/period.
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- Make sure your text editor is set to remove trailing whitespace.
- Use the `#readme` anchor for GitHub READMEs to link them directly
---

## License
- **[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)**

Commit message:

Additional speaking event
July 1 2020, ServerlessDays Paris - Remote Session #3 [The new LAMP stack is serverless](https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Paris-Serverless-Architecture-Meetup/events/271290160/) - *Benjamin Smith*

serverless-php-resources.md, after:

# The Serverless LAMP stack  - Community Resources
> A community curated list of PHP / Serverless resources (videos, blogs, code examples frameworks, events).

![The Serverless LAMP stack](repository-resources/serverless-lamp-stack.png "The Serverless LAMP stack")

PHP is 25 years old and [still powers most of the web](https://w3techs.com/technologies/details/pl-php).

Lambda provides an easy way for PHP developers to take advantage of the benefits of serverless compute.

This community curated list of serverless/PHP resources helps likeminded PHP developers benefit from serverless technologies. It will also help to prove the demand for a natively supported PHP runtime for Lambda.

> PHP, Serverless, LAMP, Amazon API Gateway, AWS Lambda, MySql, Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS Proxy, Lambda Layers, Lambda Custom Runtime API

## Articles

- ["Authenticating AWS Cognito with Laravel"](https://blog.deleu.dev/authenticating-aws-cognito-with-laravel/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["AWS Lambda With PHP Using Bref And Serverless Framework"](https://www.nexmo.com/blog/2020/03/16/aws-lambda-with-php-using-bref-and-serverless-framework-dr) - *Adam Culp*
- ["Bleeding Edge PHP on ZEIT Now"](https://dev.to/nx1/bleeding-edge-php-on-zeit-now-565g) - *Milan Felix Šulc*
- ["Compiling wkhtmltopdf for use inside an AWS Lambda function with Bref is easier than you'd think"](https://tech.mybuilder.com/compiling-wkhtmltopdf-aws-lambda-with-bref-easier-than-you-think/) - *Neal Brooks*
- ["Deploying Laravel Artisan on AWS Lambda"](https://blog.deleu.dev/deploying-laravel-artisan-on-aws-lambda/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["Deploy Static Frontend + PHP Files Using ZEIT Now"](https://dev.to/nx1/deploy-static-frontend-php-files-using-zeit-now-mg) - *Milan Felix Šulc*
- ["Going serverless with PHP"](https://medium.com/php-fad/going-serverless-with-php-f5a67cb3d67b) - *Kpicaza*
- ["Introducing the new Serverless LAMP stack"](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/introducing-the-new-serverless-lamp-stack/) - *Benjamin Smith*
- ["PHPUnit with Bref"](https://blog.deleu.dev/phpunit-with-bref/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["Responding to SMS in PHP using AWS Lambda and Bref"](https://www.twilio.com/blog/responding-to-sms-in-php-using-aws-lambda-and-bref-php) - *Gary Hockin*
- ["Serverless for PHP Developers"](https://blog.servmask.com/serverless-for-php-developers/) - *Gene Surov*
- ["Serverless PHP using AWS Lambda"](https://medium.com/startupward/serverless-php-using-aws-lambda-e36e214d43f7) - *Jacques Fu*
- ["Symfony Messenger on AWS Lambda"](https://developer.happyr.com/symfony-messenger-on-aws-lambda) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["Une introduction au cloud et aux lambdas en PHP"](https://jolicode.com/blog/une-introduction-au-cloud-et-aux-lambdas-en-php) - *Loïck Piera*
- ["Using AWS Lambda as a private Laravel API"](https://blog.deleu.dev/using-aws-lambda-as-a-private-laravel-api/) - *Marco Aurélio Deleu*
- ["What is AWS Lambda, and how Laravel Vapor uses it"](https://dev.to/themsaid/what-is-aws-lambda-and-how-laravel-vapor-uses-it-1j98) - *Mohamed Said*



## Case studies
- ["From LAMP to serverless: case study of externals.io"](https://mnapoli.fr/serverless-case-study-externals/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["How Serverless Saved Us For $2"](https://devops-life.com/blog/2020/03/06/how-serverless-saved-us-for-$2-with-bref-sh/) - *Tristan Bessoussa*
- ["Retour d’expérience : Serverless et PHP"](https://www.enoptea.fr/serverless-et-php/) - *Gaultier Boniface*
- ["Serverless case study: PrettyCI and Laravel Queues"](https://mnapoli.fr/serverless-case-study-prettyci/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Serverless case study: returntrue.win"](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Using NewRelic with Bref on AWS Lambda"](https://developer.happyr.com/newrelic-on-bref-aws-lambda) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["We rebuilt Fathom Analytics from the ground up and moved to Laravel Vapor"](https://usefathom.com/blog/moved-to-vapor) - *Jack Ellis*


## Talks / Videos
- ["A journey toward serverless on a ship called PHP"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VfoNUUJggIA&feature=emb_title) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Creating new AWS Lambda PHP Mezzio application with Bref - Beachcasts LIVE!"](https://github.com/stechstudio/laravel-bref-bridge) - *Adam Culp*
- ["Getting started with PHP on AWS Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5cLZ5jT2Gi0) - *Thomas Bley*
- ["PHP Layer for AWS Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vb-o1DvvHxk) - *Gaultier Boniface*
- ["Serverless PHP applications with Bref - Matthiew Napoli - PHP UK 2020"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2V4QTM2aes&feature=emb_title) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- ["Serverless PHP? EC2 vs Elasticbeanstalk vs Lambda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRY0Iay7Los&t=183s) - *Kai Hendry*
- ["Symfony aws"](https://www.slideshare.net/AlessandroMinoccheri/symfony-aws)- *Alessandro Minoccheri*




## Tools
- ["All you need to log with Bref on AWS Lambda"](https://github.com/brefphp/logger) - *brefphp community*
 - ["Bref PHP extensions separately available as Lambda layers"](https://github.com/brefphp/extra-php-extensions) - *brefphp community*
 - ["Bref, the Laravel way"](https://github.com/stechstudio/laravel-bref-bridge) - *Signature Tech Studio*
- ["Bridge to use Symfony Messenger on AWS Lambda with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/symfony-messenger) - *brefphp community*
- ["Driver for AWS Aurora serverless rds data api / doctrine database abstraction layer"](https://github.com/Nemo64/dbal-rds-data) - *Marco Pfeiffer*
- ["Examples of PHP applications built with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/examples) - *brefphp community*
- ["Package to use Laravel on AWS Lambda with Bref"](https://github.com/brefphp/laravel-bridge) - *brefphp community*
- ["Small library to write good Lambda hooks"](https://github.com/Happyr/bref-hook-handler) - *Tobias Nyholm*
- ["Vercel PHP runtime"](https://github.com/juicyfx/now-php) - *Milan Felix Šulc*


## Events
 - June 25/25 2020, Dutch PHP Conference Online [Serverless PHP applications with Bref](https://schedule.phpconference.nl/speaker/8) - *Matthieu Napoli*
- July 1 2020, ServerlessDays Paris - Remote Session #3 [The new LAMP stack is serverless](https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Paris-Serverless-Architecture-Meetup/events/271290160/) - *Benjamin Smith*
- September 24/25 2020, Serverless Days Zurich, [The new LAMP Stack for 2020,  ](https://zurich.serverlessdays.io/speakers/benjamin-smith.html) - *Benjamin Smith*

## Contribute

Contributions are always welcome!
Please read the contribution guidelines first.

## Contribution Guidelines

Please ensure your pull request adheres to the following guidelines:

- Alphabetize your entry.
- Search previous suggestions before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.
- Suggested resources should be include both elements of Serverless technologies and L.A.M.P
- Make an individual pull request for each suggestion.
- New categories, or improvements to the existing categorization are welcome.
- Keep descriptions short and simple, but descriptive.
- Start the description with a capital and end with a full stop/period.
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- Make sure your text editor is set to remove trailing whitespace.
- Use the `#readme` anchor for GitHub READMEs to link them directly
---

## License
- **[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)**
